# Why Should You Learn Jenkins X?

Since its inception in 2014, Kubernetes has exploded in popularity. It has emerged as the operating system of the cloud. Software vendors are building the next generation of their products to be Kubernetes-native. As a result, a whole new eco-system of tools has emerged. However, building and operating software in Kubernetes can be challenging due to the overall complexity of Kuberbernets. Jenkins X allows us to harness the power of Kubernetes without spending endless hours on learning about the ever-growing Kubernetes features.

All businesses strive to quickly deliver new products and services to their customers. This increases customer satisfaction and enhances business profitability. CI/CD tools are also designed with a similar goal in mind - to quickly provide value. Monolithic applications are not well-suited for CI/CD. As a result, microservices-based applications are gaining popularity. More and more products are opting for loosely coupled architectures. And running container image-based production workloads is becoming a norm. Jenkins X is a promising open source CI/CD tool for cloud-native microservices.

Jenkins X takes an opinionated approach as it pre-defines many aspects of the software development process and makes decisions for you. It puts a strong focus on increasing developer's productivity. If you are starting on a new project, Jenkins X will create a directory structure and the required files for you. If you need a Kubernetes cluster with all tools installed and configured, no worries, Jenkins X will do that for you. But that's not all, it will also automatically create Git repositories, web hooks, and pipeline workflows for your project. If you don't like Jenkins X's opinionated approach, it will let you override the defaults and let you do your own thing. The list of what Jenkins X does is vast and is growing everyday.
